PORTABLE MAC FACTS
------------------

If the connection to the BARCO projector comes unplugged during a
class demonstration, the only remedy seems to be to be to select
SHUTDOWN from the SPECIAL menu on the Mac, replug the BARCO wires in,
then turn on the Mac to reboot and start over.

If the Mac is all set up and running and you haven't used it for
several minutes, you might find that the screen has gone dim or
even totally black.  The machine goes into sleep mode after it has
been inactive for a while.  Just push RETURN and it will fire back
up in a few seconds and leave you where you left off before it went
to sleep.

Neil Carlson discovered that even if you turn the volume totally off
on the control panel before you start a game of Space Invaders while
proctoring an exam, the game sound effects are not off.  And they won't
stop if you push CONTROL-C or CONTROL-PERIOD or CONTROL-Z or ESCAPE
or any combination of these keystrokes.  Your only recourse at this
point is to to unplug the Mac and run into the hall with it and stay
there until "The Ride of the Walkyries" is over.

MAPLE on a mac
--------------

To change the font sizes of the input font, the text font, and the
output font on a MAPLE worksheet:

To change the font size, pull down the FORMATS menu.  Don't
bother with the menu item that says SIZE under the FONT submenu.
It merely changes the font size of selected text.  Select the
FORMATS submenu of the FORMATS menu (below the FONTS submenu).
A dialogue box pops up and you can change the fonts.  (So far I
haven't checked the box at the bottom to make my changes the new
defaults.  None of us should do that until we are sure what we
want.)

To download a MAPLE session (in  .ms form) from a SUN to a portable
Mac:

From MAPLE on the SUN, select SAVE AS from the FILE menu and save
your worksheet as filename.ms.  Next, get a UNIX prompt and cd to the
directory where  filename.ms  has been deposited (which will be the
directory you were in when you fired up MAPLE, if you haven't changed
the filter).  Insert a disk into the disk drive on the machine you
are logged onto.  (You can't do this from an X-terminal.  You might
have to go up to a named machine in the Keedy Lab.)  Type

mwrite -t filename.ms FILENAME.MS

at the UNIX prompt.  (To get your disk back, type  eject  at a
UNIX prompt.)  This will copy filename.ms to the disk and give
it the name, FILENAME.MS there.  (The name of the file on the disk
can be the same or different from the name of the file on the SUNs
and capital letters don't matter either.)

Turn on your portable Mac.  After it boots up, shove your disk
in the slot on the right hand side of the machine until it
clicks and starts reading.  Open up the hard disk icon.  Double
click on the MAPLE folder.  Click in the MAPLE folder window.
Select "Make folder" from the FILE menu and make a folder with
your name on it.  Open up the icon of the disk you read in and
drag the icon for FINLENAME.MS (PC) to the folder with your name
on it.  (You can now eject the transfer disk by dragging its icon
to the stupid little trash can at the bottom right corner of the
screen.)

Fire up MAPLE on the Mac and select OPEN from the FILE menu.
A dialogue box pops up.  (If you don't know your way around a
Mac, you might have trouble finding your folder and your file at
this point.  I sure did.)  Once you find your file, double click
on it.  NOW HERE IS SOMETHING REALLY DUMB:  On a SUN, when
you select OPEN, the MAPLE session comes up in a Worksheet
and you can edit it and use it and execute it, no sweat.  On the
Mac, the FILENAME.MS session comes up in a second window called a
"Scratch pad."  If you edit it or push return on a command
on this Scratch Pad, the results are copied to the main worksheet
window and executed there.  This will kill any demo you have
created that works on your SUN.  To make the Mac work like a
SUN, you need to click on the Scratch Pad window, choose SELECT
ALL from the FILE menu on the Scratch Pad window, then select COPY
from the EDIT menu on the Scratch Pad window, then click on the
Worksheet window, then select PASTE from the EDIT menu on the
Worksheet.  Now you can close the Scratch Pad window and it will
be as if you selected OPEN on a SUN.

Things to watch out for:  The backslash in front of the newline
character \n  that must appear in formatted print statements like

printf(`answer = %-10.5f \n`, y);

does not transfer from a DOS formatted disk to the Mac.  You
have to manually go in and put the  \  back in front of the n.
After that, you can select SAVE AS from the FILE menu and
save your worksheet as a bona fide Mac .ms file (without the
PC extension) and you won't have to worry about this again.

Oh yeah.  Graphics that have been pasted into a worksheet don't
transfer from SUN to Mac either.  (I can't imagine why.  They are
standard simple raster files in the .ms file.)  That is a bummer.
On a SUN, you can select EXECUTE WORKSHEET from the VIEW menu and
the machine starts from the top line and automatically pushes return
at the end of each line in succession all the way down to the end
in no time flat.  On the Mac, this feature seems to be missing.  To
get the graphic at line 50 to pop up on a Mac worksheet that you
have read in, you can manually push ENTER 50 times or you can use
the mouse to highlight (i.e., select) the first 50 commands and then
push ENTER.

Another odd feature of MAPLE on the Mac is the function of the NEW
command on the FILE menu of a Worksheet.  On a SUN, if you want to
clear all the variables you have defined without quitting and reloading
MAPLE, you select NEW from the FILE menu and you get a fresh worksheet.
On the Mac, if you select NEW, you get a fresh "Scratch Pad."  All the
variables you defined in the session are still defined.  When you type
in the scratch pad, the output goes to the worksheet.  If you want to
clear all the variables you have defined, type "restart;" at a prompt.
This has the same effect as the NEW menu item on the SUNs.

